Mana Foster here in Jerusalem now Israel
has said that it plans to move displaced
Palestinians from Rafa at the southern
tip of the Gaza Strip into what it's
calling humanitarian islands in the
central strip ahead of any military
ground offensive that would happen in
rafan this has been reported this
morning by the Associated Press not a
huge amount of detail of what those
humanitarian Islands would look like or
how exactly they would work but rear
Admiral Daniel hagari has quoted as
saying that they would have temporary
housing and they would have aid for
something like 1.4 million Palestinians
who are currently in Rafa at the moment
as I say it's right at the very southern
end of the Gaza Strip it's where more
than half of the population is now
Sheltering and it's a place where Israel
has said that it needs to carry out a
military ground offensive because it
says that in order to achieve its stated
aim of fully removing Hamas from Gaza
the only way to do that is to Target
hamas's remaining surviving leadership
they are believed to be in and among
those civilians who are Sheltering in
Rafa now now of course this remains a an
operation which has questions attached
to it certainly the use of the word
islands is an interesting one because
the central part of the Gaza Strip uh
has been left severely damaged by months
of Israeli ground and air attacks people
who live there have left their homes
they'd be going back to those areas but
of course the buildings that they were
living in many of them are not left
standing and are not habitable anymore
which is why you see down in Rafa at
those thousands and thousands of tents
that people are living in the flow and
supply of Aid is very limited of course
Rafer is the the main route by which Aid
gets into Gaza at the moment by Road and
there's continuing pressure on Israel as
well to try and actually increase the
amount of humanitarian Aid that's going
in now on those humanitarian Islands the
US Secretary of State Anthony blinken
has said that he has yet to see a plan
or details of a plan from Israel about
how they would protect civilians during
a military ground offensive in Rafa but
he also said that it was important to
see a plan to make sure that civilians
were moved out of Harm's Way and we're
also looking today at the progress we've
been following it uh here on BBC News
over the last couple of days the
progress of what would be the inaugural
ship to use this new Maritime Aid
Corridor that was announced by the EU
last week and has been set up between
Cyprus and Gaza now a Spanish uh ship
the Open Arms run by a charity set off
from Cypress on Tuesday it's towing a
barge with around 200 tons worth of
meals that have been provided by World
Central Kitchen uh important to say
though that when it arrives in Gaza
there are a lot of challenges that it
will face now we know that it is
approaching the coast but in terms of an
actual time scale of when it might
arrive and start Distributing that Aid
World Central Kitchen uh before now have
said they've been reluctant to give a an
official timetable and you can see why
why because there isn't a port or or
proper Jetty or dock or anything like
that on the coast of Gaza at the moment
so what world Central Kitchen have been
arranging actually in Gaza is the
building of this temporary Pier to try
and receive the aid from the ship
actually using in some cases uh rubble
from destroyed buildings to try and
build some sort of structure that this
barge could come up to and then they
could unload the aid now that is the
first problem of course the second issue
that they will face is how when you are
surrounded Ed by so many desperate
people around 300,000 or so believe to
still be in the northern part of the
Gaza Strip how you securely and safely
and fairly as well managed to distribute
that Aid among the people who were so
desperate for it and we've seen Aid
convoys swamped by people in the last
few weeks there was that occasion where
more than a hundred people were killed
around an aid Convoy where IDF soldiers
opened fire they said that they felt
threatened by the crowds we saw some
people actually crushed under the wheels
of the trucks that were carrying the aid
so we know that even as that Maritime
Corridor uh starts to build and more
ships start to come in that those issues
will remain and of course the scale of
the need uh is is not diminishing in
fact it's it's getting greater all the
time and that is why the International
Community say that they are continuing
to put pressure diplomatic pressure on
Israel to allow more and greater volumes
of Aid in